W-15677476 : Salesforce OMS to ERP Integration Documentation (#122)
mulesoft/docs-accelerators: salesforce-oms/1.1/modules/ROOT/pages/sap-s4hana-setup-guide.adoc

= SAP S4HANA Setup Guide

== Overview

> The following describes how to configure and test an S/4HANA Cloud SOAP outbound service (Product replication: `productmdmbulkreplicaterequest`) and the S/4HANA Cloud SOAP Connector as a Mule application deployed on Cloudhub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections guide you through configuring and testing an S/4HANA Cloud SOAP outbound service (Product replication: `productmdmbulkreplicaterequest`) and the SAP S/4HANA Cloud SOAP Connector as a Mule application deployed on CloudHub.
```

> == Configurations in S/4HANA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure SAP S/4HANA
```

 +
. For outbound communication, select the previously-created user and configure the *Product Master - Replicate from SAP S/4HANA Cloud to Client* and include the following settings. Make sure to note the Path (`/sap/bc/srt/scs/sap/productmdmbulkreplicaterequest`) because we will use this path to configure the Mule application SOAP endpoint:
 ** Set the *Service status* to *Active*
 ** Replication Model (any name)
 ** Replication model = `I (Initial)`
 ** The Output Mode = `D (Direct)` +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-06.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-06.png,799] +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-07.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-07.png,799] +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-08.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-08.png,799] +
 +
. Save it. All configurations at S/4HANA Cloud side are finished and you will be able to download the WSDL that contains the metadata to import into the S/4HANA Cloud SOAP Connector into the Mule application.

> == Configurations in the Mule Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure Your Mule Application
```

 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-23.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-23.png,799] +
 +
. See the sent message in the Message Dashboard Fiori Application: +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-24.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-24.png,799] +
 +
. Select the date: +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-25.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-25.png,399] +
 +
. Search under *CMD:Product Integration - /CMDPR → Product Replication to Client via Service - PRDREQ_OUT/00001 namespace*: +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-26.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-26.png,799] +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-27.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-27.png,799]

== S/4HANA customization guide

The following provides guidance on the custom fields that you must create for  customers, products and orders sync use cases to function in an end-to-end manner.

> === Custom fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create Custom Fields
```

Create the following new fields in the corresponding objects for the use case:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Salesforce Object | Field Name | Data Type | Length | Unique | ExternalId
| BusinessPartner | YY1_SME_MPARTYROLEID_bus | Text | 36 | Y | Y
| SalesOrder | YY1_SME_MORDERID_SDH | Text | 36 | Y | Y
| Product | YY1_SME_UnvProductId_PRD | Text | 36 | Y | Y
|===

> === Confiigurations for Order Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Confiigure Salesforce Order Management
```

> The following provides guidance on the setup and custom fields for Salesforce OMS to ERP Integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections guide you through setting up your Salesforce OMS to ERP Integration.
```

> Communication Arrangement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Configure the Communication Arrangement

Use the settings in the table to configure the communication arrangements.
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Communication Arrangement ID | Service Name | Protocol 
| SAP_COM_0109 | Sales Order (A2X) | OData V2
| SAP_COM_0223 | Outbound Delivery - Notify (B2B) | OData V2
| SAP_COM_0905 | Transportation Management - Freight Order Integration | OData V4
| SAP_COM_0120 | Billing Document - Create with SD Document Reference | SOAP
| SAP_COM_0120 | Billing Document - Read, Cancel, GetPDF| OData V2
|===

> For the Outbound Delivery - Notify (B2B), use the Fiori app Output Parameter Determination to add the following entry under the rule for Outbound delivery and Determination Step Output Relevance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Required Entry for Outbound Delivery - Notify (B2B) Communication Arrangement

Use the Fiori app Output Parameter Determination to add the following entry under the rule for *Outbound delivery* and *Determination Step Output Relevance*.
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Output Type | Goods movement status | Document Category | Picking status 
| DELIVERY_NOTE | A | J | C
|===

> Add the customer using the rule (Outbound Delivery) and the Determination Step Channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring the communication arrangements, add the customer by using the rule `Outbound Delivery` and the Determination Step Channel.
```

> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
```

| Output Type | Recipient | Channel | Rolee 
| DELIVERY_NOTE | <Customer Number> | EDI | WE
|===

> At the communication system, used to configure this communication arrangement, add the customer in the section Business Partner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, add the customer in the *Business Partner* section of the communication system, which is used to configure this communication arrangement.
```

> Custom CDS View

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Custom CDS View
```

Reviewer: We need a short explanation of this section. Also, please spell out CDS.

>  - Name: YY1_SDDocumentFlow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * *Name*
 +
 YY1_SDDocumentFlow
```

>  - Representative Key: SalesDocument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * *Representative Key*
 +
 SalesDocument
```

>  - Scenario: External API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * *Scenario*
 +
 External API
```

>  - Data Sources: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * *Data Sources*
 +
```

>     |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[%header%autowidth.spread]
    |===
```

    | Field name | Type | Cardinality | Join Condition 
    | I_SalesDocument| Primary Datasource | N/A | N/A
    | I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlow| Associated Datasource | Zero or More [0..*] | PrecedingDocument = SalesDocument
    | I_SDDocumentCategory| Associated Datasource | Zero or More [0..*]| SDDocumentCategory = SubsequentDocumentCategory
    |===

>  - Elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * *Elements*
 +
```

>     |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[%header%autowidth.spread]
    |===
```

    | Alias | Path | Type | Key 
    | SalesDocument| I_SalesDocument.SalesDocument| CHAR (10) | Yes
    | PrecedingDocumentCategory | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.PrecedingDocumentCategory | CHAR (4) | No
    | SubsequentDocument | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.SubsequentDocument | CHAR (10)| No
    | SubsequentDocumentCategory | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.SubsequentDocumentCategory | CHAR (10)| No
    | ProcessFlowLevel | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.ProcessFlowLevel | NUMC(2) | No
    | CreationDate | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.CreationDate | DATS (8) | No
    | CreationTime | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.CreationTime | TIMS (6) | No
    |===

> A custom communication scenario has to be created adding this CDS view as an inbound service. Once published, create a communication arrangement using that custom communication scenario. That arrangement will have the service URL to retrieve the SD Document Flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Create Custom Communication Scenario

You must create a custom communication scenario by adding the CDS view as an inbound service. After you publish the communication scenario, create a communication arrangement using the custom communication scenario you just created. The communication arrangement includes the service URL that is used to retrieve the SD Document Flow.
```

> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
```

= SAP S4HANA Setup Guide

== Overview

> The following sections guide you through configuring and testing an S/4HANA Cloud SOAP outbound service (Product replication: `productmdmbulkreplicaterequest`) and the SAP S/4HANA Cloud SOAP Connector as a Mule application deployed on CloudHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure and test an S/4HANA Cloud SOAP outbound service (Product replication: `productmdmbulkreplicaterequest`) and the SAP S/4HANA Cloud SOAP Connector as a Mule application deployed on CloudHub, see the [SAP S/4HANA Setup Guide] on Exchange.

Follow the steps in the <<s4hana-customization-guide>> section to set up your Salesforce OMS to ERP Integration.
```

 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-22.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-22.png,399] +
 +
_The following shows the  XML message received at the Mule application at the Runtime Manager on Cloudhub:_ +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-23.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-23.png,799] +
 +
. See the sent message in the Message Dashboard Fiori Application: +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-24.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-24.png,799] +
 +
. Select the date: +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-25.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-25.png,399] +
 +
. Search under *CMD:Product Integration - /CMDPR → Product Replication to Client via Service - PRDREQ_OUT/00001 namespace*: +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-26.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-26.png,799] +
 +
image:https://www.mulesoft.com/ext/solutions/draft/images/retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-27.png[retail-sap-s4hana-setup-guide-27.png,799]

> == S/4HANA customization guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[s4hana-customization-guide]]
== S/4HANA Customization Guide
```

> The following provides guidance on the custom fields that you must create for  customers, products and orders sync use cases to function in an end-to-end manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the following custom fields in the corresponding objects in Salesforce OMS to enable the customer, product, and orders sync use cases to function end-to-end.
```

> === Create Custom Fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Create the following new fields in the corresponding objects for the use case:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Salesforce Object | Field Name | Data Type | Length | Unique | ExternalId
| BusinessPartner | YY1_SME_MPARTYROLEID_bus | Text | 36 | Y | Y
| SalesOrder | YY1_SME_MORDERID_SDH | Text | 36 | Y | Y
| Product | YY1_SME_UnvProductId_PRD | Text | 36 | Y | Y
|===

> === Confiigure Salesforce Order Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure Salesforce Order Management
```

> The following sections guide you through setting up your Salesforce OMS to ERP Integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps in these sections to configure your Salesforce OMS to ERP Integration.
```

==== Configure the Communication Arrangement

Use the settings in the table to configure the communication arrangements.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Communication Arrangement ID | Service Name | Protocol 
| SAP_COM_0109 | Sales Order (A2X) | OData V2
| SAP_COM_0223 | Outbound Delivery - Notify (B2B) | OData V2
| SAP_COM_0905 | Transportation Management - Freight Order Integration | OData V4
| SAP_COM_0120 | Billing Document - Create with SD Document Reference | SOAP
| SAP_COM_0120 | Billing Document - Read, Cancel, GetPDF| OData V2
|===

> ===== Required Entry for Outbound Delivery - Notify (B2B) Communication Arrangement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Required Entry for Outbound Delivery - Notify (B2B) Communication Arrangement
```

Use the Fiori app Output Parameter Determination to add the following entry under the rule for *Outbound delivery* and *Determination Step Output Relevance*.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Output Type | Goods movement status | Document Category | Picking status 
| DELIVERY_NOTE | A | J | C
|===

After configuring the communication arrangements, add the customer by using the rule `Outbound Delivery` and the Determination Step Channel.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Output Type | Recipient | Channel | Rolee 
| DELIVERY_NOTE | <Customer Number> | EDI | WE
|===

Next, add the customer in the *Business Partner* section of the communication system, which is used to configure this communication arrangement.

> ==== Custom CDS View

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Custom CDS View
```

 * *Name*
 +

>  YY1_SDDocumentFlow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 YY1_SDDocumentFlow
 
```

 * *Representative Key*
 +

>  SalesDocument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 SalesDocument
 
```

 * *Scenario*
 +

>  External API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 External API
 
```

 * *Data Sources*

>  +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
    |===
    | Field name | Type | Cardinality | Join Condition 
    | I_SalesDocument| Primary Datasource | N/A | N/A
    | I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlow| Associated Datasource | Zero or More [0..*] | PrecedingDocument = SalesDocument
    | I_SDDocumentCategory| Associated Datasource | Zero or More [0..*]| SDDocumentCategory = SubsequentDocumentCategory
    |===

 * *Elements*

>  +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
    |===
    | Alias | Path | Type | Key 
    | SalesDocument| I_SalesDocument.SalesDocument| CHAR (10) | Yes
    | PrecedingDocumentCategory | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.PrecedingDocumentCategory | CHAR (4) | No
    | SubsequentDocument | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.SubsequentDocument | CHAR (10)| No
    | SubsequentDocumentCategory | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.SubsequentDocumentCategory | CHAR (10)| No
    | ProcessFlowLevel | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.ProcessFlowLevel | NUMC(2) | No
    | CreationDate | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.CreationDate | DATS (8) | No
    | CreationTime | _I_SDDocumentMultiLevelProcFlo.CreationTime | TIMS (6) | No
    |===

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

==== Create Custom Communication Scenario

> You must create a custom communication scenario by adding the CDS view as an inbound service. After you publish the communication scenario, create a communication arrangement using the custom communication scenario you just created. The communication arrangement includes the service URL that is used to retrieve the SD Document Flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must create a custom communication scenario by adding the CDS view as an inbound service.

Publish the communication scenario, and then create a communication arrangement using the custom communication scenario you just created. The communication arrangement includes the service URL that is used to retrieve the SD Document Flow.
```
